Match the web vitals to
the correct descriptions.
So we have TTFB, FID,
TTI, TBT, CLS, and INP.
And then the time it takes for a web page
to respond to a user's first interaction,
the time that it takes the main thread,
the time that the main thread is
blocked from responding to user input.
The average time it takes for
a webpage to update its visuals
after a user interacts with it.
The time it takes for
the server to respond to a request and
start sending data back to the client.
Or the time it takes for
a webpage to be fully loaded and
responsive to the user input.
Or the last one,
the stability of a webpage's layout or
unexpected layout shifts that
occur on a webpage as it loads.
So the answer is TTFB or
Time To First Byte, the time it takes for
the server to respond to a request and
start sending data back to the client, or
more like the moment that
the client receives the first byte.
Then we have FID, First Input Delay,
which is the time it takes for
a webpage to respond to
a user's first interaction.
Then we have TTI, Time To Interactive,
which is the time it takes for
a webpage to be fully loaded and
responsive to user input.
We have the TBT, Total Blocking Time,
which is the time that it takes the main
thread or the main thread is blocked
from responding to user input.
Then we have CLS, which is Layout Shifts,
so the stability of the webpages and
layouts or the unexpected layout shifts
that occur on a webpage as it loads.
And NIP, Interaction to Next Paint,
which is the average time it takes for
a webpage to update its visuals
after a user interacts with it.
So first, the Time To First Byte, there's
no animation here or something, but that's
just the moment that the client receives
the very first byte of the server.
This isn't necessarily
as the response ends.
Normally, a response streams in, so this
is just the first byte of that response.
That is that Time To First Byte,
that's the moment where the parser can
kinda start parsing and
processing that HTML.
First, or next, we have the First Input
Delay, and this one kinda measures.
So on the main thread,
we can have long tasks,
which is a task over 50 milliseconds,
or a regular task.
And if you open your dev tools, you will
often see another bar with long tasks,
these are the tasks that you wanna
avoid as they block the main thread.
So for example, here,
the user clicks on something,
as it's still performing a long task.
So during those 200 milliseconds, which
seems short, but for a user experience,
that's actually quite a lot, it cannot
process that event because the main thread
is currently still processing that long
task, and JavaScript is single-threaded.
First Input Delay isn't super consistent
cuz what if the user clicked for
the first time right
before that long task?
Then your First Input Delay seems
a lot shorter, even though, yeah,
so it's not super consistent.
Also, users may not even interact
with your website, then you don't get
a First Input Delay value, but
it's still good to just keep in mind.
Then we have the Time To Interactive,
which is the first time after a long task
has ended that the main thread didn't have
any long tasks for at least five seconds.
So this kind of just measures
that after that time,
the thread is reliably interactive.
Maybe some long task might still occur six
seconds after that last long task, if that
makes sense, but yeah, at that point in
time, that's the Time To Interactive.
So yeah, that's when you can make sure
that long tasks won't block user input.
Next, we have the Total Blocking Time,
which is the time from
the First Contentful Paint to
the Time To Interactive that the long
tasks take longer than 50 milliseconds.
So the first one was 90 milliseconds,
so then it's 40,
55, it's 5 milliseconds,
and 154 minus 50 is 104.
And these all get combined
into a single value.
So here, the Total Blocking Time is 149
milliseconds, because that is the kind
of cumulative time that the tasks were
over 50 milliseconds, if that makes sense.
I feel like I'm explaining
it in a confusing way.
But the Total Blocking Time is a good
indication of how interactive your
webpage is before the Time To Interactive,
because as you see here, for
both of these, well, scenarios,
the Time To Interactive is the exact same.
But for the first one,
there's just one big long task.
During that entire long task, your user
cannot interact with your webpage at all.
Whereas for the second one, your user
still has some time to interact with it,
cuz there are still some long tasks.
But in between,
they can still interact with it and
they will actually see that input.
But it's not reliable because you still
see that some long tasks are happening
right there.
So yeah, it's just like a good
measurement to see, okay,
this is my Time To Interactive, but
how interactive is it prior to
getting to the Time To Interactive?
Because it doesn't mean that your
webpage isn't interactive at all
before that timestamp, kind of.
Yeah, so here, the Total Blocking Time
of the first one is 700 milliseconds,
whereas for the first one,
it's only 15 milliseconds.
So that's a lot better.
Then we have the Cumulative Layout Shift,
which is kind of like,
it's the product of the distance
fraction with the impact fraction.
So first, we have the distance fraction,
which is what percent of the largest
viewport measurement, so
either the height or the width,
did that element change?
So in this case, it moved by 22% down.
And then we have the impact fraction,
which measures the percentage of
the vieport that was affected
by this layout shift.
So in this case, it was the entire
view port that got shifted.
As you could see here,
nothing was as it used to be.
I don't know if it just went back.
Yeah, so in this case, the CLS is 0.22,
cuz the distance fraction is 22%,
0.22, and
then the impact fraction is 1, so 0.22.
So you can see here,
if we somehow dynamically load a filter,
I don't know why that would
be dynamically loaded.
Maybe you're fetching
something from a database and
then conditionally rendering based on,
I don't know, a certain condition and
this gets rendered right
after the initial load.
So maybe your user wants to click right on
that Using React Server Components, but
then it shifts and
you accidentally click on that sort date.
So in this case, the distance fraction
is only 13% down of the total viewport's
heights, and only 60% of the total
viewport was affected by this change, so
then the CLS is only 0.07.
That make sense?
Kind of?
[LAUGH] And then we have
the Interaction to Next Paint,
which is kind of a new
measurement [LAUGH].
Or it gets measured when
a user leaves a page.
And it's the combination or the average
time that it took for the website or
for the page to respond
to user interaction,
until that interaction actually
showed up on the page.
So that includes processing
the click event, layout, paint, and
also compositing.
So at the very end, or when the user
leaves the page, you usually get the worst
INP that it measured throughout
the entire lifespan of the page.
But it kinda depends on the amount
of interaction you have.
Sometimes you get the 98 percentile,
stuff like that.
So that's Interaction to Next Paint,
which is pretty new, but a pretty good
indication of just how responsive
it also looks through your user.